---
title: Blog content intro
date: 2019-06-30 00:00:00
description: This post is about all the topics that I will sooner or later cover with short articles in this blog. 
featured_image: '/images/demo.jpg'
---

This project / spreadsheet was created to test the evidence based sheduling (EBS) <a href="https://www.joelonsoftware.com/2007/10/26/evidence-based-scheduling/">approach</a> by Joel Spolsky.


The ebs approach amazed me as it seems it might be a way to leave  ms-project-date-driven-planning and simply
ever-wrong shedules behind.
Today you cannont find much information about the EBS time planning approach. In conjunction not many tools are
available to test the 'new' way of sheduling. But Joel has written a very good blog entry from which one can fully understand the approach.

To give it a chance I created this tool as a member of a rather 'classic' multi-disciplinary engineering project team
(I must admit that I underestimated the effort for this project. If I have had the tool before this maybe would have been 
clearer to me)

These were the aspects that I tried to put focus on:
* Shedules should be in drawers and not on your main screen: Planning should not stop me from working (at least only a little bit, you won't get output for no input)
* Power of words: Giving correct forcasts of time needed to get tasks done is crucial for me and my team. I am a very new 
project member by the way and my knowledge of the tasks in the project is limited - so are my skills in estimating task times.
* In the end: Make the whole project more reliable. This implies that less false assumptions about project times are made
and that the teams' goal is achieved in a smooth, continuous and healthy way
* The EBS approach is a thesis not proven fact. Proof that it works by using it

So this project is for you: A person who works in a little to little-mid-size project, a member of a team or a one (wo)man show.
May it be for software development, getting a new bicyle factory running or changing the world elsewhere.

To spread planning with the evidence based sheduling approach to the world basically the following things are needed in my opinion:
1. Collecting and queuing tasks, prioritizing and sorting them (Kanban becomes handy here)
2. Time tracking to build up a database of your very own time needed to finish tasks
3. Running EBS 'statistics' on the collected data. The statistics methods used are not too complex, so I am not confident enough
to call it statistics without the hyphens
4. And not to forget: Easy access to the tool in your daily working life and options to customize the tool. This especially made me choose Excel and VBA as a platform.
Nearly everybody owns a license and installation or setting up an development environment is not necessary.
5. This is open software. Use it, change it, port it to a super-duper website with cute interface. But please give a tiny hint from where you got it. Thank you! 

Now lets dig deeper into the content of EBS and the implementation inside the spreadsheet:

1. How the spreadsheet works: Three simple steps to get a more reliable shedule
* Projects are shopping lists
* The queue tells you what to do
* Use the force and your calendar

2	Evidence based sheduling: Very own interpretation, basic ideas and implementation
3 Excel implementation details: Getting the dust wiped of VBA
4 Further thoughts on time estimation and verifying the data you generated
4.1 Outlook on how to get this running on larger teams and projects