---
title: More on release v1.091
subtitle: Read more on the first major release that contains everything you need to get started with EBS for realistic shedules.
date: 2019-10-15 00:00:00
description: 'Alice: How long is forever? White Rabbit: Sometimes, just one second.'
featured_image: alice.jpg
accent_color: '#4C60E6'
gallery_images:
  - alice.jpg
---


This project / spreadsheet was created to test the evidence based sheduling (EBS) approach by Joel Spolsky.
Visit his <a href="https://www.joelonsoftware.com/2007/10/26/evidence-based-scheduling/">blog</a> for more info.

The ebs approach amazed me as it seems it might be a way to leave  ms-project-date-driven-planning and simply
ever-wrong shedules behind.

As for today you cannont find much information about the EBS time planning approach. In conjunction not many tools are
available to test the *new* way of sheduling. But Joel has written a very good blog entry from which one can fully understand the approach.

To give it a chance I created this tool as a member of a rather *classic* multi-disciplinary engineering project team
(I must admit that I underestimated the effort for this project. If I have had the tool before this maybe would have been 
clearer to me)

These were the aspects that I tried to put focus on:
* Shedules should be in drawers and not on your main screen: Planning should not stop me from working (at least only a little bit, you won't get output for no input)
* Power of words: Giving correct forcasts of time needed to get tasks done is crucial for me and my team. I am a very new 
project member by the way and my knowledge of the tasks in the project is limited - so are my skills in estimating task times.
* In the end: Make the whole project more reliable. This implies that less false assumptions about project times are made
and that the teams' goal is achieved in a smooth, continuous and healthy way
* The EBS approach is a thesis not proven fact. Proof that it works by using it

So this project is for you: A person who works in a little to little-mid-size project, a member of a team or a one (wo)man show.
May it be for software development, getting a new bicyle factory running or changing the world elsewhere.


To get started just download the spreadsheet. It is open source. Feedback appreciated. For more info on how to use it just navigate to my blog where I put down my thoughts on creating shedules, EBS and the VBA implementation.

<p class="h1">
				<a href="https://github.com/rap1ide/EbsSpread/tree/master/bin" class="button--fill">Download latest release</a>
			</p>