---
title: More on release v1.200
subtitle: Improved stability, modified appearance and progress bars!
date: 2020-09-01 07:00:00 pm
description: 'Life, if well lived, is long enough. Seneca'
featured_image: ben-chuzp.jpg
accent_color: '#4C60E6'
gallery_images:
  - ben-chuzp.jpg
---

## Description
This project / spreadsheet was created to test the evidence based sheduling (EBS) approach by Joel Spolsky.
Visit his <a href="https://www.joelonsoftware.com/2007/10/26/evidence-based-scheduling/">blog</a> for more info.

The ebs approach amazed me as it seems it might be a way to leave ever-wrong shedules behind.

Today you cannot find much information on the EBS time planning approach. In conjunction not many tools are available to test the *new* way of sheduling. But Joel has written a very good blog post from which one extract all info.

To give it a chance I created this tool.
(I must admit that I underestimated the effort for this project. If I have had the tool before this maybe would have been clearer to me)

These are some guidelines I stick to:
* Shedules should be in background and not on your main screen: Planning should not stop me from working (at least only a little bit, you won't get output for no input)
* Customizing the toolset should still be possible
* The EBS approach is a thesis not proven fact. Proof that it works by applying it
* Integrate methods used in *Agile Software Development* like Kanban boards
* Planning should be easy and done by project members as estimation of tasks can only be done correctly by people who are getting the tasks' work done

So this project is for you: A person who works in a little to little-mid-size project, a member of a team or a one (wo)man show.
May it be for software development, getting a new bicyle factory running or changing the world elsewhere.
To get started just download the spreadsheet. It is open source. Feedback appreciated. For more info on how to use it just navigate to my <a href="{{ '/blog' | relative_url }}">blog</a> where I put down my thoughts on creating shedules, EBS and the VBA implementation.

<p class="h1">
				<a href="https://github.com/rap1ide/EbsSpread/tree/master/release" class="button--fill">Download latest release</a>
</p>

## New features
* Change calendar standard: Use optional events as 'busy'-time 
* Progress bars indicate state of long-running operations
* Long-running operations can be stopped via progress bar
* Change appearance of task list: Add more space and prevent long fields textoverflow with spacer columns
* Implement feature to auto-format task list
* Tasks now have a creation date internally stored for extended analysis
* Time of meta tasks can now be shared: Track time on one meta task and split time on all visible tasks afterwards 


## Fixes
* TryCatch handler now handles all kind of errors. Users do not have to enter debugging mode
* Clipboard is now cleared when data is copied
* Improved stability and error handling
* Task order is now preserved when tasks are exported and imported again


## Known issues
* Editing multiple cells is not supported. Please edit each cell individually to be sure the macros are executed correctly
* Blocker categories for calendar estimation are not working and thus disabled


## How to upgrade from previous versions

Follow these steps to import your tasks from an older version (v1.100 and above):

1. Go to  *Settings* tab of worksheet
1. Hit `Export visible tasks` 
1. Copy the *EXP_STOR_...* sheet(s) to the new workbook
1. Go to  *Settings* tab of new worksheet and hit `Import tasks`
1. All your tasks should be present in the new sheet