<!-- ---
title: More on release v1.100
subtitle: Message handling, import/export utilities and bug fixes
date: 2020-02-15 10:00:00 pm
description: 'Alice: How long is forever? White Rabbit: Sometimes, just one second.'
featured_image: alice.jpg
accent_color: '#4C60E6'
gallery_images:
  - alice.jpg
---
-->

## Description
This project / spreadsheet was created to test the evidence based sheduling (EBS) approach by Joel Spolsky.
Visit his <a href="https://www.joelonsoftware.com/2007/10/26/evidence-based-scheduling/">blog</a> for more info.

The ebs approach amazed me as it seems it might be a way to leave ever-wrong shedules behind.

Today you cannot find much information on the EBS time planning approach. In conjunction not many tools are available to test the *new* way of sheduling. But Joel has written a very good blog post from which one extract all info.

To give it a chance I created this tool.
(I must admit that I underestimated the effort for this project. If I have had the tool before this maybe would have been clearer to me)

These are some guidelines I stick to:
* Shedules should be in background and not on your main screen: Planning should not stop me from working (at least only a little bit, you won't get output for no input)
* Customizing the toolset should still be possible
* The EBS approach is a thesis not proven fact. Proof that it works by applying it
* Integrate methods used in *Agile Software Development* like Kanban boards
* Planning should be easy and done by project members as estimation of tasks can only be done correctly by people who are getting the tasks' work done

So this project is for you: A person who works in a little to little-mid-size project, a member of a team or a one (wo)man show.
May it be for software development, getting a new bicyle factory running or changing the world elsewhere.
To get started just download the spreadsheet. It is open source. Feedback appreciated. For more info on how to use it just navigate to my <a href="{{ '/blog' | relative_url }}">blog</a> where I put down my thoughts on creating shedules, EBS and the VBA implementation.

<p class="h1">
				<a href="https://github.com/rap1ide/EbsSpread/tree/master/releases" class="button--fill">Download latest release</a>
</p>

## New features
* Add message handler
* Change task import export modules to use virtual sheet(s)
* Add DoEvents for long-running operations
* Replace string collections with dictionaries
* Add lots of verbose, info, warning and error messages shown by the new message handler

## Fixes
* Copying high user estimate value to task sheet if date was entered in mask

## Known issues
* Editing multiple cells is not supported. Please edit each cell individually to be sure the macros are executed correctly
* Blocker categories for calendar estimation are not working and thus disabled
* Deleting an entry sometimes breaks the filter criteria. The spreadsheet will display a fix report window on next startup and resume normally

## How to upgrade from previous versions

Follow these steps to import your tasks from an older version (v1.093 and above):

1. Hit `ALT-F11` to open the VBA editor
1. Type *TaskUtils.VirtualizeTaskSheets* into the Immediate window and hit `Enter` to store all your tasks to virtual storage sheet(s)
1. Right click on any spreadsheet tab and *Unhide* any sheet starting with *VSHEET_STOR_* (e.g. VSHEET_STOR_BC2D39). These storage sheet(s) contains all your data
1. Copy the *VSHEET_STOR_...* sheet(s) to the new workbook
1. Rename the *VSHEET_STOR_...* sheet(s) to *EXP_STOR_...*
1. Go to the *Settings* sheet inside the new workbook and hit `Import tasks of sheet`
1. All your tasks should be present in the new sheet. Reorder the tasks if necessary as task order will not be imported